{\rtf1 \mac \ansicpg10000 \nisusversion30401 \deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 \froman \fcharset77 GandhariUnicode{\*\falt Gandhari Unicode};}{\f1 \fnil \fcharset77 GandhariUnicode-Italic{\*\falt Gandhari Unicode};}{\f2 \fnil \fcharset77 GandhariUnicode-Bold{\*\falt Gandhari Unicode};}}{\colortbl ;\red255 \green0 \blue0 ;}{\*\nisustoctable {\nisustoc \tcf83 {\nisustocname Sommario predefinito}{\*\nisustoctabrep  }{\*\nisustocretrep  }{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 1}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 2}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 3}
{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 4}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 5}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 6}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 7}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 8}{\nisustoclevelstyle Sommario 9}}
\nisusactivetoc83 }{\*\nisusxetable {\nisusxe \xef73 {\nisusxename Indice analitico predefinito}{\nisusxeheaderstyle Indice analitico - titolo}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 1}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 2}
{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 3}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 4}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 5}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 6}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 7}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 8}{\nisusxelevelstyle Indice 9}
{\*\fldinst {INDEX \\l ", " \\g \endash  \\k ". " \\e "\tab "}}}\nisusactivexe73 }{\stylesheet {\s339 \snext339 \AppleTypeServices \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 p\u229 ?das;}
{\s340 \snext340 \AppleTypeServices \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 rientri;}{\s341 \snext341 \sbasedon342 \f1 \fs18 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \qr \widctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb0 \sa0 \sl312 \slmult1 \ltrpar \pardirnatural \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 Intestazione;}
{\s342 \snext342 {\*\nsmpltxt Some text goes here so you can see what your style will look like.}\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \qj \widctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb0 \sa0 \sl312 \slmult1 \ltrpar \pardirnatural \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 Normale;}
{\s343 \snext343 \sbasedon342 {\*\nsmpltxt Some text goes here so you can see what your style will look like.}\f0 \fs18 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \qj \widctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb0 \sa0 \sl312 \slmult1 \ltrpar \pardirnatural \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 Pi\u232 ? di pagina;}}\defformat {\info {\*\nisusgmtoffset +2:00}{\*\nisusconvertedname \bullet Introduction}{\author Marco Franceschini}{\creatim \yr1998 \mo11 \dy2 \hr11 \min8 }{\revtim \yr2010 \mo7 \dy8 \hr16 \min40 }}
{\*\userprops }\viewkind1 \viewzk1 \nisusviewruler1 \nisusviewtoolbar1 \nisusviewtooldrawer1 \nisusviewpagenumtype1 \nisusviewrulericons0 {\*\nisusviewsettings \viewkind4 \viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings }
{\nisuscommentsettings }}{\*\nisusviewsettings \viewkind1 \viewzk1 {\nisusnavsettings {\mode toc}{\closedtochandles }}{\nisuscommentsettings }}{\*\nisuswindow \x150 \y12 \w1044 \h866 }
\nisusrulerunits1 \nshwinv0 \nshwpg1 \hyphauto0 \nisusinlinespell0 \nisusselectstart63280 \nisusselectlength0 \fet2 \ftnbj \paperw11900 \paperh16840 \margl1440 \margr1440 \margt1800 \margb1800 \gutter0 \pgnstart1 \nocolbal \f0 \sectd \linemod0 \cols1 \ltrsect \colbalsxn0 \pgwsxn11900 \pghsxn16840 \marglsxn1440 \margrsxn1440 \margtsxn1800 \margbsxn1800 \guttersxn0 \headery720 \footery720 \pgncont \pgndec \sxncont \sxndec {\header \plain \pard \s341 \qr \widctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb0 \sa0 \sl312 \slmult1 \ltrpar \pardirnatural \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \f1 \fs18 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 }
{\footer \plain \pard \s343 \qj \widctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb0 \sa0 \sl312 \slmult1 \ltrpar \pardirnatural \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \f0 \fs18 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 }
\deftab720 {\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs36 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 PREFACE}{\f0 \fs36 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}
{\pard \ql \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 GENERAL PLAN OF THE CONCORDANCE\par
}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 The Concordance is part of a larger scheme.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The plan of this work dates back to the year 1892, when two separate announcements of it were published \endash  the one in the }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Proceedings}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 of}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 the}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 American}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Oriental}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Society}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  (for April, 1892, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Journal}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , volume xv, page clxxiii), and the other in the }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Johns}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Hopkins}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 University}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Circulars}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  (for June, 1892, volume xi, number 99). At that time, as the reader of either of these announcements will see, I sketched the plan of a three-fold apparatus designed to facilitate and deepen the study of the Vedas: one part of it was a universal word-index to the Vedas; another was an index of subjects and ideas; and the third, which I promised to undertake myself, was a Vedic Concordance. As commonly happens in such cases, the fulfilment of the last-named part of the plan cost much more time and labor than was expected. With correspondingly greater satisfaction I now present the result to those of the Hindu people who look upon the Vedas as their sacred books, and to all scholars in this field of Indian antiquities. That result is, an alphabetic index to every line (or }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 p\u257 ?da}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ) of every stanza (or }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u7771 ?c}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ) of the published Vedic literature and to every liturgical formula thereof (}
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 yajus}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 pr\u257 ?i\u7779 ?a}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , and so on), that is, an Index to the Vedic Mantras.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Conditions of the problem which the Concordance involves.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Vedic mantras represent parts of a mass of traditional material which was more extensive even than that which has come down to us, \endash  material current in the various schools of Vedic learning, preserved from generation to generation by memory, and handed down from teacher to pupil by, word of mouth. I have, for my part, little doubt that this oral tradition was supported at a comparatively early time \endash  when we cannot say \endash  by written tradition (see AV. xix. 72). As a natural consequence of the fallibility of both oral and written tradition, what was originally and essentially one and the same stanza or formula was handed down in the texts of the various schools in more or less varying forms. The variants are often of the same general character as those which appear in the various forms of ballads, or in recensions of church hymns: there are simple differences in the order of the words; differences due to the substitution of a more familiar, handy, or modern word or grammatical form for an archaic, inconvenient, or obsolescent one of equivalent meaning or function. To this must be added the very important point that there are also many cases in which a given mantra passage, composed under certain definite circumstances, was later on adapted and changed to serve a new purpose.\par
Furthermore, Vedic literary production is often in a high degree imitative and mechanical. The poets or priests, more or less consciously, fell into habits of expression such that entire lines of different stanzas or hymns, and considerable sequences of words of different prose passages, show much similarity. This ranges from complete identity to a likeness which is sometimes so vague or fleeting as hardly to be recognizable, save to the practised eye of the expert Vedic student.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 PRIMARY USES OF THE CONCORDANCE}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 1. It is a comprehensive index of all mantras.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Thanks to the editors of a considerable number of Vedic texts, we have, for each of the various Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s, and for some Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as, S\u363 ?tras, etc., an index of first lines of each stanza. These indexes are of course scattered over divers volumes; and they do not take cognizance of lines other than the first. Moreover, these indexes do not as a rule register such prose-formulas as the texts may happen to contain: they simply register the prat\u299 ?kas of the metrical stanzas. The advantage of having, as in the present work, one comprehensive index, which shall include every line of every stanza, as well as every prose formula, in one single alphabetic arrangement and in one single volume, will, I am certain, be prized by every student of the Veda.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 2. It registers the variants of mantras not wholly identical.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Mantras which occur only a single time, or appear in a wholly identical form in two or more texts, require no comment after they have been properly arranged in an alphabetical index. Again, mantras which are not wholly identical, but are alike in their beginnings, will also fall into the same or nearly the same place in a direct alphabetic arrangement. It is obvious that the places of occurrence of a given mantra of this kind may be advantageously grouped together, with a statement of the various readings of the different texts. The method used for this purpose is explained below. Once more, if the forms of the mantra in question differ at the beginning, then \endash  obviously again \endash  they will occupy places in the alphabetic arrangement more or less widely apart, and it will be necessary to connect them by some system of cross-references. This also is explained below. To sum up, the Concordance affords, primarily, an easy and ready means of ascertaining the following things: First, where a given mantra occurs, if it occur but once; second, whether it occurs elsewhere, either with or without variants, and in what places; and third, if it occur with variants, what those variants are.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 SECONDARY USES OF THE CONCORDANCE\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 1. It is a key to the liturgical employment of the mantras.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The above-mentioned uses are plainly the direct or primary ones for which a work like this is expected to serve. The nature of the subsidiary Vedic literature (Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as, S\u363 ?tras, etc.), however, and its intimate relation to the fundamental texts, are such that the Concordance may also be readily put to certain indirect or secondary uses, which are scarcely less important for the systematic progress of Vedic study. First, since the Concordance gives not only the places of actual occurrence of a given mantra in the Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s, but also the places where it is cited in the subsidiary works on ritual and household custom and the like, it furnishes the key to the liturgical or ritual employment of every mantra as prescribed by the ceremonial books. I hope that the Concordance will prove to be a most effective means of advancing our knowledge of the hymns and the ceremonies in their relations to one another. The hymn or prayer, and the ceremony that accompanied it, often serve mutually each as a commentary on the other. The subtle blend of song and rite makes a full knowledge of both necessary for the understanding of either.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 2. It is virtually a finding-index of rites and practices.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  As a corollary to the use just mentioned, I may add that, since a given prayer is liable to be rubricated in similar or identical rites and practices described in the large mass of Hindu ritual texts, the Concordance will incidentally serve, to no inconsiderable extent, as a helpful finding-index of similar or identical rites and practices.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 3. It is a tool for future editors of Vedic texts.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The future editor of a Vedic text will find in a complete assemblage of all the mantras an auxiliary of the very first importance. In the work of constituting a Vedic text, the mantras are the most intractable part of the material concerned, because they are written in a dialect which \endash  differing, as it does, considerably from the later forms of Sanskrit \endash  was imperfectly understood by the scribes. Since much of the material of this kind with which the future editor will have to deal is quite certain, as experience shows, to be contained in the literature previously published, it is obvious that the Concordance will greatly facilitate the establishment of the new texts and the revision of some that have already been edited. Moreover, since, as has been already said, parallel prayers are to a large extent imbedded in parallel ceremonies, the Concordance will not be without value in establishing the text of the liturgical books themselves.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 4. It is a repertory of the most archaic Hindu prose.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Concordance presents, for the first time and in a form ready and convenient for systematic study, the prose mantras as distinguished from the metrical mantras of the Vedic hymns on the one hand, and from the rest of the early prose on the other. It seems to me that these prose formulas are in a dialect or in a style that differs not a little from the narrative or descriptive prose of the Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as and S\u363 ?tras. The formulas abound, at any rate, in poetic or other archaisms that deserve to be collected and treated by themselves. There is also good reason to believe that the prose of the formulas is the oldest Hindu prose and so the oldest Indo-European prose. The study here suggested seems to me likely to prove to be a not unfruitful one.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 5. Miscellaneous uses.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  It can hardly be doubted that the Concordance will be of service in the work of determining the relations of the different Vedic schools or }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?s}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  to one another. I am not sure but that the present time is just as opportune for this interesting and fundamental research as any that is likely to present itself within the next fifty years or so. And there are various other interesting questions that will suggest themselves to different scholars, according to their bent of mind and habits of investigation, for the solution of which the Concordance can not fail to be a useful tool. For example, it may be noted that this Concordance assembles an enormous number of passages beginning with the prohibitive adverb }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 m\u257 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , and that even a cursory examination of them reveals the interesting fact that only a very few contain verb-forms other than injunctives or augmentless preterits. Or, again, the extreme frequency of mantras beginning with the name of a divinity has as its consequence that mantras concerning a certain deity are here, to a very large extent, grouped together. For instance, the mantras beginning with the name of Agni fill twenty-eight pages, and those beginning with the name of Indra fill twenty-three. Consequently, in this book will very often be found, most conveniently assembled, much of the material for the study of questions relating to Vedic mythology. Nor must I omit to say that the initial words of the mantras form by themselves a very considerable part of a word-index to the mantras.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 SCOPE OF THE CONCORDANCE\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 1. Certain published texts not included.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Although the title claims that the entire published Vedic literature is incorporated in this Concordance, yet the claim is made with certain reservations. The P\u257 ?ippal\u257 ?da-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ? or Kashmirian text of the Atharva-Veda, to begin with, is in a sense published, being accessible to scholars in the chromophotographic reproduction edited by Professor GARBE and myself; but it is too corrupt to be incorporated here and compared with the rest of the material, and the birch-bark original still remains unfortunately the only one known to us for this text. We may hope that the Concordance will prove of great service in restoring this text so far as is feasible under these singularly distressing circumstances. Again, the edition of the Dr\u257 ?hy\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?a-\u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra, promised, and in part, I believe, issued, by Dr. J. N. REUTER of Helsingfors, I have not as yet received. So, too, the \u346 ?\u257 ?nti-Kalpa, edited by Professor G. M. BOLLING, in the }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Transactions}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 of}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 American}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Philological}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Association}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , volume xxxv, appeared too late. I believe I have read all the later Upani\u7779 ?ads and Sm\u7771 ?ti or Dharma texts which seemed likely to be of interest in this connection; but I have not thought it necessary to continue, among all kinds of late paralipomena or }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 pari\u347 ?i\u7779 ?\u7789 ?as}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , a pedantic search which might be indefinitely prolonged without commensurate results. Anything that may come to light within the next twenty years or so may well await the day when the accumulation of new texts or of new editions of old ones shall render a supplement to the Concordance a profitable undertaking. Once more, the claim of the title-page calls for a word of explanation as to certain doubtful elements of late or less important published texts. What I have endeavoured to embody in the Concordance with absolute completeness is the following: all the stanzas and all the prose passages of formulaic character contained in the Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s, Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as, \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yakas, older Upani\u7779 ?ads, \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tras, and G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tras. On the other hand, in the case of the later Upani\u7779 ?ads or of the metrical Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stras and Sm\u7771 ?tis, or of such a text as the Rig-Vidh\u257 ?na, I have adopted a selective method. It would clearly be inadvisable to include in this Concordance all the stanzas that occur in the works last mentioned. From them, accordingly, I have culled whatever appeared to have Vedic form or Vedic flavor. Unerring judgment in such choice no one will expect: I do not believe that I have erred on the side of including too little. It is perhaps more likely that I have included some things that might just as well or better have been left out.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 2. Unpublished texts included.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Concordance, on the other hand, gives more than is promised by the title-page, in that it includes a very considerable amount of material not yet published. Of the four books of the K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? only the first has so far been actually issued by the editor, Professor LEOPOLD VON SCHROEDER of the University of Vienna: it is to me a source of peculiar satisfaction that I am able to give in this Concordance the mantra material from this highly important text entire. I made a special journey to Vienna, in 1902, for the express purpose of copying the material from the three unpublished books, and the editor generously met my wishes by the loan of his manuscripts. From them, by the close and arduous labour of a month, I excerpted the needed parts, and embodied them later in the Concordance. To Professor VON SCHROEDER I owe an especial debt of gratitude. Again, by the kind co\u246 \'9aperation of Professor FRIEDRICH KNAUER of the University of Kiew, I have been enabled to present the mantras of the entire M\u257 ?nava-\u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra, an important text in eleven books of which only five as yet are published. Professor HANNS OERTEL, of Yale University, has enriched the Concordance by the not too numerous, and unfortunately very corrupt, mantras contained in the J\u257 ?imin\u299 ?ya- or Talavak\u257 ?ra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. Finally I should note that I have incorporated all the material from the so-called "dedications" of the ritual of the horse-sacrifice or }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 a\u347 ?vamedha}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , and human sacrifice or }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 puru\u7779 ?amedha}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . Not all of these are mantras in the stricter sense of the word; but they have been included because they figure in the Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s and because they sometimes interchange with real mantras of the same or similar import.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 General statement of the number and kind of works included.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  It appears that one hundred and nineteen texts in all have been drawn upon for contributions to the Concordance. A list of these, with an account of the text-editions used and with all needed bibliographical and other relevant notes, is given in the proper place below ("}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 Bibliography of the works cited, with abbreviations of their titles}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 15). The works so drawn upon are listed under the following ten classes: 1. Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s; 2. Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as; 3. \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yakas; 4. Upani\u7779 ?ads; 5. \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tras; 6. G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tras, Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?has, and related texts; 7. Dharma-S\u363 ?tras, Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stras, and Sm\u7771 ?tis; 8. Vidh\u257 ?na-texts; 9. Ancillary texts of the Veda; 10. Four miscellaneous texts. I have not thought it worth while to catalogue other texts which I have read, for the most part late Upani\u7779 ?ads and Law Texts, but which yielded nothing that appertains to this work.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 The Concordance rarely reports variants registered in the critical apparatus of a given edited text.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The critical apparatus of Vedic texts contains in the main worthless readings, due to all kinds of defects of tradition*. To have incorporated these readings into the Concordance would have swelled its bulk inordinately, and have been a task upon the whole no less futile than difficult. On the other hand, it has in some rare cases seemed advisable to report from the critical apparatus of a given text a manuscript reading not adopted by the editor of that text, which manuscript reading is then distinguished as such by the added note "}
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 var}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 lect}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ."; but this has not often been done. Hence the user of this Concordance may at times profit by looking into the critical apparatus of those texts which are cited by the Concordance as containing the various forms of the same p\u257 ?da or formula, especially when there is question as to the original form of such p\u257 ?da or formula, or as to the interrelation of the Vedic schools or }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?s}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 * We may perhaps except parts of the AV. as edited by ROTH and WHITNEY, especially book xix. and the Kunt\u257 ?pa-hymns of book xx. Here the editors have practically rewritten the text at many points, and it might have been well to report the readings of the manuscripts rather than those of the edition; but those manuscript readings are easily accessible.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Orthographic details reported or neglected.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Certain peculiarities in the orthography of the M\u257 ?itr\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?\u299 ?-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? have been reported for the most part, if not with absolute completeness. They are duly explained by Professor VON SCHROEDER in the Introduction to his edition, and they are included here because they involve differences of alphabetic arrangement. On the other hand, although the KS. and ApMB. write final }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 s}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  before the three initial sibilants, respectively, as }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  and }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u7779 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  and }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 s}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , I have not thought it advisable to burden the Concordance with the details of this variation which has no bearing upon the alphabetic arrangement, and is not carried out with strict consistency even by the manuscripts of those texts. I beg the reader to understand the general statement just now made as sufficing, for the sequel, to cover all such details.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Occasional suggestions of emendation.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Vedic texts often invite to independent emendation. In this matter I have been very abstemious, but I have not refrained entirely from making an occasional conjecture as to what seems to me to have been the correct form of some now unintelligible word or phrase. If any of my colleagues are disposed to look askant at such a thing in such a place, I trust that they will take my long and intimate acquaintance with the materials involved in such questions as in some measure justifying my procedure.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 FUTURE WORK COMPLEMENTARY TO THE CONCORDANCE\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 The working-up of material of texts yet unedited.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The heading of this section implies faith in the future of Vedic studies: I am confident that the Vedas will continue to be studied as long as there is interest in the history of human thought and human institutions. Because of the half-mythical nature of Vedic tradition, we do not know certainly how many different books were originally elaborated by the ancient Hindu poets and theologians of different schools and localities; but India is a very large country, and the seemingly fabulous statistics of the Cara\u7751 ?a-Vy\u363 ?has have proved to contain an estimable measure of truth. Still less certain may we be as to how many of those works are still extant, and as to how many of those which are extant may ultimately come to our hands in manuscript. Nevertheless a considerable number of Vedic texts \endash  their names need not encumber these pages \endash  are even now known to exist in manuscript; and although their publication may be deferred, it is in the end sure to come. It is plain that, all in due time, a supplement to the Concordance will become a necessity. For that supplement it will perhaps be worth while to wait until all, or nearly all, the remaining texts shall have seen the light of day. Meantime I take the liberty of calling the attention of future editors of these texts to the importance of giving with each text-edition an index of metrical lines and of prose formulas, after the manner of this Concordance, and with constant references to it. When I reflect upon the large number of texts elaborated in the present work, or consider, for example, that the forty thousand p\u257 ?das of the Rig-Veda will not have to be indexed again, I am glad to think that the final supplement, considerable though it may be, cannot possibly involve anything like the labor of the foundation-work.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 The elaboration of a reverse concordance.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  With the present work serving as a basis, a reverse concordance, that is, one which arranges alphabetically the verse-lines and formulas by their endings rather than by their beginnings, should not prove too difficult an undertaking. I am sure that it will prove a valuable one. A very considerable number of Vedic verse-lines are nearly or wholly alike in their endings, such as ... }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 parame}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 vyoman}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  (or }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 vyomani}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ), or ... }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 suk\u7771 ?t\u257 ?m}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 u}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 lokam}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . This matter is discussed once more in another connection below ("}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 Cases of partial correspondence: At the beginning; at the end; in the middle}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 12). A reverse concordance would reveal these relations, and would again in its own way present many new uses. It may yet be my own fate to continue the work in this direction; but I claim no special right to the task, and any competent scholar is welcome to undertake it. In that case, however, I hope that he will first communicate with me, in order that we may not uselessly duplicate the same labor.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF OBLIGATIONS\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 To the University Press of Oxford.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The external appearance of this work is such that any specific comment upon the technical skill, the good taste, and the patient fidelity of Mr. HORACE HART, M.A., Controller of the Press, is quite uncalled for. I am certain that I owe much also to the valuable help of the Oriental Reader at the Press, Mr. J. C. PEMBREY, Hon. M. A, of Oxford, especially for his watchful care of details concerning the alphabetic order of the index. The services of both these gentlemen I gratefully acknowledge.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 To Pupils and Colleagues.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  A good many years have gone by since the first preliminaries of the work on the Concordance were begun. It is pleasant to think that in those early days I was aided by the members of a modest institution within the Johns Hopkins University, the so-called Vedic Seminary. The work of reading the several Vedic texts for the purpose of marking off properly the p\u257 ?das and formulas I did of course myself; but, this important preliminary done, I would often turn over to one or another of these my pupils a text or part of a text in order that they might transcribe the mantras upon slips. Portions of the first draft of a rough manuscript were also prepared by some of them from the slips after their partial arrangement. Not a little help was derived from their willing hands in these ways, and I desire here to recall the unselfish and enthusiastic spirit in which each gave what he could spare of time and labor. I hope that even those of them who aided least have not remained unremembered. The names of these scholars are as follows:\par
Dr. F. R. BLAKE, Instructor in Oriental Languages in the Johns Hopkins University; Dr. G. M. BOLLING, Professor of Greek and Sanskrit in the Catholic University of America; M. BRANDOW, A. B., sometime Assistant Librarian in the Johns Hopkins University; Dr. H. L. EBELING, Professor of Greek in Hamilton College; Dr. C. J. GOODWIN, Professor of Greek in Lehigh University; Dr. J. E. HARRY, Professor of Greek in the University of Cincinnati; Dr. D. H. HOLMES, Instructor in the Classics, High School, Brooklyn; Dr. J. T. LEES, Professor of Greek in the University of Nebraska; Dr. H. W. MAGOUN, sometime Professor of Latin in Redfield College; Dr. J. L. MOORE, Professor of Latin in Vassar College; Dr. J. A. NESS, Instructor in Latin in Wittenberg College; Dr. R. B. Steele, Professor of Latin in Vanderbilt University; and, finally, the late Dr. A. W. STRATTON, who was, at the time of his deeply lamented death, Registrar of the University of the Punjab and Principal of the Oriental College at Lahore, India, and Professor of Sanskrit.\par
Professor ARTHUR A. MACDONELL, of the University of Oxford, kindly furnished me with a printer's proof of the index of Vedic prat\u299 ?kas since then published on pages 105-114 of the first part of his edition of the B\u7771 ?had-Devat\u257 ?; and a similar kindness was done me by Professor MORITZ WINTERNITZ of the University of Prague, who made accessible to me the material of the Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?ha of the \u256 ?pastambins before it was published. The services of Professor HANNS OERTEL of Yale University, and of Professor FRIEDRICH KNAUER of the University of Kiew, and in particular of Professor LEOPOLD VON SCHROEDER of the University of Vienna I have already described above ("}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 Unpublished texts included}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 5) and acknowledge them gratefully.\par
The editor of this Series, Professor CHARLES R. LANMAN of Harvard University, teacher, colleague, and friend, almost from the day when I began my Sanskrit studies in 1877, has brought to bear his great editorial talents upon this Concordance in every possible way. He has also found time to read one proof of a number of sheets (1-10 and 49-50). I can only regret that I have not had the benefit of his trusty eye and his sound scholarship for the bulk of the work, to the exclusion of many a blemish.\par
It is a pleasure, finally, to remember my former pupil and friend, Mr. HENRY C. WARREN, of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Mr. Warren gained the respect of students of India by his scholarly volume, entitled }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Buddhism}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , a series of illustrative translations from the Sacred Books of the Buddhists (volume iii. of the Harvard Oriental Series). To his love of Oriental learning it is due that this Concordance and the other volumes of this Series are issued in a suitable and dignified form. At the close of this long labor, I record the kindly and substantial aid which he gave, while alive, to this undertaking; and I am glad to say that the enlightened provisions of his last will now further the studies that he loved in life.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \tab BALTIMORE, October, 1906.\tab \tab \tab MAURICE BLOOMFIELD.\page }
{\f2 \fs36 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 EXPLANATIONS\par
INTRODUCTORY TO THE USE OF THE\par
CONCORDANCE\par
}}{\pard \ql \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 General scope of these explanations.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Since this Concordance has to do with no less than one hundred and nineteen different works, it is, in the first place, obvious that a complete list of those works should be given, in a systematic order and with proper bibliographical descriptions of the editions used, and that the bibliographic list should be followed by an alphabetic list of the abbreviations by which the several works are designated. This list of abbreviations is found in a separate file named "Abbreviations". In the second place, while it is probable that the several more or less arbitrary devices employed in reporting the variants will be readily understood by every Vedic scholar, it is nevertheless possible that uncertainty of one kind or another should arise in some mind; and I have accordingly thought it worth while to explain these devices systematically and in connection with a few illustrative examples.\par
}}
{\pard \ql \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 GENERAL REMARKS ON THE CHARACTER OF THE VARIANTS\par
}}
{\pard \ql \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 No hard and fast line between truly variant and vaguely similar passages.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The similarities between related Vedic passages are of very varying degrees, and range from a likeness so close that one may be called a true variant of the other, to a likeness so slight or vague as hardly to be worth reporting. Nevertheless, if we take a few typical examples, the differences of character as between several of the many possible classes are palpable enough.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 True variants. \u362 ?ha-p\u257 ?das.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Thus, if we take the two p\u257 ?das occurring in the Rig-Veda and the Atharva-Veda respectively,\par
\tab acitt\u299 ? yat tava dharm\u257 ? yuyopima,\tab \tab and\par
\tab acitty\u257 ? cet tava dharm\u257 ? yuyopima,\par
it is plain that the latter is a true variant of the former. In this instance even the motive of the changes is plain: the Atharva-Veda transfuses the hieratic language of the Rig-Veda into its own more popular wording. Another well-defined, though not common, class of true variant passages includes the \u363 ?ha-p\u257 ?das, which consist of an otherwise identical phrase varied, for instance, by the substitution of the name of one deity for another. Such are\par
\tab m\u257 ?m agne bh\u257 ?gina\u7747 ? kuru,\tab \tab and\par
\tab m\u257 ?m indra bh\u257 ?gina\u7747 ? kuru.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Variants in p\u257 ?das other than the first.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  It is important, next, to draw attention to the cases where the differences between two or more stanzas crop out in some other p\u257 ?da than the first. Since, for the Concordance, the unit of comparison is the p\u257 ?da and not the stanza, the Concordance reveals very many such cases which would of course never come to light in a mere index of prat\u299 ?kas. For example, stanza 3 of the RVKh.10.127 is in part parallel to ArS.3.7; but the first three p\u257 ?das of each stanza are so unlike those of the other that no index hitherto available could have brought to light the parallelism. Not until we come almost to the end do we find the correspondence. The fourth p\u257 ?das are\par
\tab vi\u347 ?vasya jagato ni\u347 ?\u257 ?m, RVKh.,\tab \tab and\par
\tab vi\u347 ?vasya jagato r\u257 ?tr\u299 ?, ArS.,\par
a parallelism which the alphabetic arrangement of the single p\u257 ?das in the Concordance makes apparent automatically. Similarly the stanza RV.1.141.13 shares its second and third p\u257 ?das with several Yajus texts (KS.7.12; Ap\u346 ?.5.9.10; M\u346 ?.1.5.2.11), while in p\u257 ?das one and four it is wholly different in subject-matter and diction. The RV. stanza reads:\par
\tab ast\u257 ?vy agni\u7717 ? \u347 ?im\u299 ?vadbhir ark\u257 ?i\u7717 ?\par
\tab s\u257 ?mr\u257 ?jy\u257 ?ya pratara\u7747 ? dadh\u257 ?na\u7717 ?,\par
\tab am\u299 ? ca ye maghav\u257 ?no vaya\u7747 ? ca\par
\tab miha\u7747 ? na s\u363 ?ro ati ni\u7779 ? \u7789 ?atanyu\u7717 ?;\par
while the Yajus stanza reads:\par
\tab ut samudr\u257 ?n madhum\u257 ?n \u363 ?rmir \u257 ?g\u257 ?t\par
\tab s\u257 ?mr\u257 ?jyaya pratara\u7747 ? dadh\u257 ?na\u7717 ?,\par
\tab am\u299 ? ca ye maghav\u257 ?no vaya\u7747 ? ca\par
\tab i\u7779 ?am \u363 ?rja\u7747 ? madhumat sa\u7747 ?bharema.\par
Accordingly it is clearly worth while to consult the Concordance for every p\u257 ?da of a given stanza, if such parallelisms are not to escape notice.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Essential similarity with wide divergence of wording.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Once more, it sometimes happens that the wording of one and the same stanza is so varied in the different texts that not one of the lines of the one text is quite like the corresponding line in the other. A striking illustration is afforded by AV.5.25.8 and \u346 ?G.1.19. The text of AV. reads:\par
\tab adhi skanda v\u299 ?rayasva\par
\tab garbham \u257 ? dhehi yony\u257 ?m,\par
\tab v\u7771 ?\u7779 ?\u257 ?si v\u7771 ?\u7779 ?\u7751 ?y\u257 ?van\par
\tab praj\u257 ?y\u257 ?i tv\u257 ? nay\u257 ?masi;\par
while the text of \u346 ?G. reads:\par
\tab abhi kranda v\u299 ?layasva\par
\tab garbham \u257 ? dhehi s\u257 ?dhaya,\par
\tab v\u7771 ?\u7779 ?\u257 ?\u7751 ?a\u7747 ? v\u7771 ?\u7779 ?ann \u257 ? dhehi\par
\tab praj\u257 ?y\u257 ?i tv\u257 ? hav\u257 ?mahe.\par
Of the fourteen words of the latter stanza, only five correspond in form and place with words of the prior stanza; and yet the two stanzas are beyond a doubt alike in their purpose and meaning, and they are in all probability two versions of an originally identical stanza. The like is true, for example, of SV.2.1059 and AV.6.36.2 (A\u346 ?.8.9.7; \u346 ?\u346 ?.10.11.9). The SV. text reads:\par
\tab ya ida\u7747 ? pratipaprathe\par
\tab yaj\u241 \'96asya svar uttiran\par
\tab \u7771 ?t\u363 ?n uts\u7771 ?jate va\u347 ?\u299 ?;\par
while the AV. text reads:\par
\tab sa vi\u347 ?v\u257 ? prati c\u257 ?k\u7735 ?pe\par
\tab \u7771 ?t\u363 ?\u7745 ?r uts\u7771 ?jate va\u347 ?\u299 ?\par
\tab yaj\u241 \'96asya vaya uttiran.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Cases of partial correspondence: At the beginning; at the end; in the middle.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  But so numerous are the cases of partial correspondence or minor parallelism between p\u257 ?das or passages, that no amount of mere attentive observation can be expected to disclose them all. Set phrases, groups of two or three words \endash  what Bergaigne used to call formulas \endash  are, as every Vedist knows, the commonplace of Vedic technique. These set phrases may of course be located at the beginning or in the middle or at the end of a p\u257 ?da or passage. Those at the beginning are revealed by this Concordance. Those at the end would be revealed by a reverse index (discussed above, "}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 The elaboration of a reverse concordance}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 7)*. For those located neither at the beginning nor at the end, nothing short of a complete verbal index of the Vedic mantras, in which every pair or longer group of words should be placed side by side, could exhaust this important and interesting information about the texture of the mantras.\par
}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 * As an interesting case of parallelism under this rubric, we may cite }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?ata\u7747 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 te}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 santv}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u257 ?v\u7771 ?ta\u7717 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  (AV.) and }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 agne}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 a\u7749 ?gira\u7717 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?ata\u7747 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 te}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 santv}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u257 ?v\u7771 ?ta\u7717 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  (VS.). No less a personage than P\u257 ?\u7751 ?ini has made the acute observation (iii. 2. 66) that the stem }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 havyav\u257 ?hana}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  occurs only at the end of a p\u257 ?da.\par
}}{\pard \ql \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 METHODS USED IN REPORTING THE VARIANTS\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 1. Variants for which the alphabetic order does not require more than one entry.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  These cases are so simple that little need be said about them. When, for example, a single word of a passage differs in two or more texts, the reading of that text is put first which stands first in the usual order of the texts, \endash  RV., AV., SV., Yajus texts, Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as, and so on, \endash  and the variant reading or readings follow in parenthesis. Thus:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \tab ya\u7717 ? pr\u257 ?\u7751 ?iti (AV. pr\u257 ?\u7751 ?ati) ya \u299 ?\u7747 ? \u347 ?\u7771 ?\u7751 ?oti uktam RV.10.125.4b; AV.4.30.4b.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 Similarly, when variants occur at more than one place, they follow in parenthesis, each in its proper place, and with an indication of its source. Thus:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 vas\u363 ?ni c\u257 ?rur (SMB. c\u257 ?rye; ApMB. c\u257 ?ryo; HG. c\u257 ?yyo) vi bhaj\u257 ?si (SMB. bh\u7771 ?j\u257 ?si; HG. bhaj\u257 ? sa) j\u299 ?van AV.19.24.6d; SMB.1.1.6d; HG.1.4.3d; ApMB.2.2.8d.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 This means that the four texts concerned, if written out in full, would read as follows:\par
\tab AV.: vas\u363 ?ni c\u257 ?rur vi bhaj\u257 ?si j\u299 ?van;\par
\tab SMB.: vas\u363 ?ni c\u257 ?rye vi bh\u7771 ?j\u257 ?si j\u299 ?van;\par
\tab HG.: vas\u363 ?ni c\u257 ?yyo vi bhaj\u257 ? sa j\u299 ?van;\par
\tab ApMB.: vas\u363 ?ni c\u257 ?ryo vi bhaj\u257 ?si j\u299 ?van.\par
So much for variants that concern single words. The case of a variant which concerns two or more successive words is as a rule no less simple: the device employed ought to leave no doubt as to the precise wording of the several texts. Here, again, the variant is placed within the parenthesis as before. Thus:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 sa no mayobh\u363 ?\u7717 ? pito \u257 ?vi\u347 ?asva (\u346 ?G.PG. pitav \u257 ?vi\u347 ?asva; A\u346 ?. pitav \u257 ?vi\u347 ?eha; M\u346 ?. pitur \u257 ?vive\u347 ?a; SMB. pitev\u257 ?vi\u347 ?asva) TS.5.7.2.4c; TB.2.4.8.7c; A\u346 ?.2.9.10c; M\u346 ?.1.6.4.25c; \u346 ?G.3.8.3c; SMB.2.1.13c; PG.3.1.4c. }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  sa na\u7717 ? pito.\par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 This item, if we include the cross-reference at the end, gives us the reading of a p\u257 ?da in nine different texts. The device requires no explanation. On the other hand, in cases where a doubt might arise as to the limits of the passage in the first text for which the words of the variant are a substitute in the second text, the variant is once more placed in parenthesis, but to it is prefixed the last of the words which are common to both texts or to all of them, and the whole is to be understood as the substitute in the second text for the common word and all that follows it in the first. Thus:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 vivasva \u257 ?dity\u257 ?i\u7779 ?a te somap\u299 ?thas tena mandasva tena t\u7771 ?pya (KS. somap\u299 ?thas tasmin mandasva) TS.1.4.22.1; KS.4.10.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 This means that the two texts read the mantra in the following two ways:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \tab TS.: vivasva \u257 ?dity\u257 ?i\u7779 ?a te somap\u299 ?thas tena mandasva tena t\u7771 ?pya;\par
\tab KS.: vivasva \u257 ?dity\u257 ?i\u7779 ?a te somap\u299 ?thas tasmin mandasva.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 I do not think that I have left the statement of these variants open to doubt in any case whatsoever: the reader who has not the text-editions at hand may safely rely upon the data of the Concordance, barring, of course, possible oversights and misprints*.\par
}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 * As to certain habits of orthography peculiar to some texts and as to reports of readings from the critical apparatus of the editions, note what was said above ("}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 The Concordance rarely reports...}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 " and "}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 Orthographic details...}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 6).\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 2. Variants involving more than one alphabetic entry.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  In the RV. we have the p\u257 ?da mandadv\u299 ?r\u257 ?yendave. The SV. reading of this p\u257 ?da is vandadv\u299 ?rayendave. Since the two readings differ in the very first letter, the one falling under }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 m}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  and the other under }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 v}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , it is clear that they cannot be adequately treated in the same way as those variants which fall alphabetically within one and the same article of the Concordance. For variants so separated, a system of cross-references has been used, introduced by the word }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , or else by the word }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Compare}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ; the latter is printed as }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ., the usual abbreviation of its Latin equivalent }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 confer}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Use of cross-references introduced by 'See'.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  When a given p\u257 ?da of the above description occurs with a variant in two texts, and only two, it then suffices to enter it twice, and to add to each entry a cross-reference to the other. Thus for the two p\u257 ?das just cited, we have, under }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 m}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , the entry,\par
\tab mandadv\u299 ?r\u257 ?yendave RV.8.69.1b. }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  vandad\u176 \'a1,\par
and again, under }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 v}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 , the second entry,\par
\tab vandadv\u299 ?r\u257 ?yendave SV.1.360b. }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  mandad\u176 \'a1.\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Use of cross-references introduced by 'See under'.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  It often happens, however, that what is essentially one and the same item occurs in three, four, or more alphabetically separate places. It is clear that it would be useless to repeat all the needed cross-references in each one of the three or four or more related articles concerned. To avoid such repetitions, the phrase }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  has been employed, and is used in all of the related articles except the first, in order to refer the reader to that first article, in which all the cross-references introduced by }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  are to be found grouped together. As an illustration, we may take a p\u257 ?da which appears in three different texts, and show how it has been treated in the Concordance. The three articles read as follows:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 ad\u257 ?ny\u257 ?n somap\u257 ?n manyam\u257 ?na\u7717 ? AV.2.35.3a. }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  anany\u257 ?n }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 etc}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ., }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 and}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ayaj\u241 \'96iy\u257 ?n yaj\u241 \'96iy\u257 ?n;\par
anany\u257 ?n somap\u257 ?n manyam\u257 ?na\u7717 ? TS.3.2.8.2a. }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ad\u257 ?ny\u257 ?n;\par
ayaj\u241 \'96iy\u257 ?n yaj\u241 \'96iy\u257 ?n manyam\u257 ?na\u7717 ? MS.2.3.8a: 36.18. }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ad\u257 ?ny\u257 ?n.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 The mere printing of the articles here in juxtaposition and in their alphabetic sequence makes further explanation needless.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Use of cross-references introduced by 'Compare' ('Cf.').}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  I have already said above ("}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 No hard and fast line...}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 10) that the parallelisms of Vedic diction range from what may be called true variants to what are little more than vague similarities, and that no precise line can be drawn between the two kinds. It is nevertheless of use to discriminate in a general way between the two classes: and accordingly in this work cross-references introduced by the word }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  are used for the former, and cross-references introduced by the word }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Compare}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  (}{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .) are used for the latter. By way of illustration, the following five articles may here be reprinted in juxtaposition and in their alphabetic sequence:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 ana\u7693 ?v\u257 ?n d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?m uta dy\u257 ?m AV.4.11.1, }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 et}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 al}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . indro d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra, mitro d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra, sa d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 and}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  skambho d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra.\par
indro d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?m utem\u257 ?m MS.4.14.7b: 225.3. }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ana\u7693 ?v\u257 ?n }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 etc}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
mitro d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?m uta dy\u257 ?m RV.3.59.1b }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 et}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 al}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ana\u7693 ?v\u257 ?n }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 etc}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
sa d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?\u7747 ? dy\u257 ?m utem\u257 ?m (AV.4.2.7c, p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?m uta dy\u257 ?m; AV.11.5.1c, p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?\u7747 ? dy\u257 ?\u7747 ? ca; Ap\u346 ?. p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ?m antarik\u7779 ?a\u7747 ? diva\u7747 ? ca) RV.10.121.1c, }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 et}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 al}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ana\u7693 ?v\u257 ?n }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 etc}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
skambho d\u257 ?dh\u257 ?ra dy\u257 ?v\u257 ?p\u7771 ?thiv\u299 ? ubhe ime AV.10.7.35a. }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 under}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  ana\u7693 ?v\u257 ?n }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 etc}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 Comment upon these articles is needless: but I ought perhaps to mention that the use of }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 Cf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . (as distinguished from }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 See}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ) does not necessarily imply that the similarities of the passages to be compared are very vague. In the examples just given, this is far from being the case. Yet they are not variants of what was originally one and the same p\u257 ?da. They are the product of the eager spirit of imitation which has taken hold of the Vedic authors even in the time of the earliest books of the Rig-Veda. I need hardly add that the kind of resemblance shown in the articles just reprinted is very common in the Veda, and that the Concordance does not pretend to have found out and noted all such cases.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE WORKS CITED,\par
WITH ABBREVIATIONS OF THEIR TITLES\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Classified bibliography of the works cited in the Concordance.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Of the Vedic works most commonly cited (such as the Rig-Veda or the Atharva-Veda), the editions are so well known to Vedic scholars that a formal bibliography of them alone would be quite needless: I should have been able to content myself with a reference to the editors, as, for instance, Aufrecht's edition of the Rig-Veda, and the like. But there are also cited many other works (such as the D\u257 ?ivata-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a or the S\u257 ?ma-Mantra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a) which are relatively so little known or so rare or so difficult to obtain that bibliographical details concerning them are altogether indispensable. Since no line can advantageously be drawn between the well-known and the less-known, I have presented a short bibliographic description of each of the text-editions used for this work, to each of which is prefixed the abbreviation employed to indicate it in the body of this work. Since it would be inconvenient to find the meaning of a given abbreviation from this classified list, it is evidently advisable to repeat the abbreviations by themselves in a separate list duly alphabetized; this is found in the file named "Abbreviations". The different classes of texts are, as stated above ("}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 General statement of the number and kind of works included}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 5), the following ten:\par
1. Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s.\par
2. Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as.\par
3. \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yakas.\par
4. Upani\u7779 ?ads.\par
5. \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tras.\par
6. G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tras, Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?has, and related texts.\par
7. Dharma-S\u363 ?tras, Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stras, and Sm\u7771 ?tis.\par
8. Vidh\u257 ?na-texts.\par
9. Ancillary texts of the Veda.\par
10. Four miscellaneous texts.\par
}}
{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Class 1. Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 RV.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Rig-Veda or Rik-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?. Die Hymnen des Rigveda. Herausgegeben von Theodor Aufrecht. Two volumes. Second edition. Bonn, 1877. This is an edition of the Rig-Veda in the recension or school (\u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?) of the \u346 ?\u257 ?kalas. The unimportant differences, wholly traditional and uncertain, that seem to have existed between this recension and the other, that of the V\u257 ?\u7779 ?kalas, are not incorporated in the Concordance. See H. Oldenberg, Die Hymnen des Rigveda, Band i., Metrische und textgeschichtliche Prolegomena, Berlin, 1888, pages 490 ff.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 RVKh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The so-called khilas or kh\u257 ?ilik\u257 ?ni s\u363 ?kt\u257 ?ni, appendices or apocryphal paralipomena, pertaining to the Rig-Veda. They are taken from Aufrecht's edition of the Rig-Veda, vol, ii., pages 672 ff. Some additional stanzas of this kind I have culled from F. Max M\u252 \'9fller's second quarto edition of the Rig-Veda, London, 1892, vol. iv., pages 520 ff. The tradition of these stanzas is floating and uncertain, and calls for an independent systematic elaboration. See Oldenberg, l.c., pages 503 ff; and Macdonell, The B\u7771 ?had-Devat\u257 ?, part ii., pages xxx ff.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 AV. }{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 (now AV\u346 ?.)}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Atharva-Veda-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? (School of the \u346 ?\u257 ?unakas). Herausgegeben von R. Roth und W. D. Whitney. Berlin, 1856. Even in those parts where the editors have altered the manuscript readings most freely, the Concordance cites (as already noted, above, "}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 The Concordance rarely reports variants...}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 6) the printed text; but occasional reference is made to the readings of the manuscripts and to those of the edition of Shankar Pandurang Pandit, Bombay, 1895-1898.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 AVP.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \cf1 \lang1033 K\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a 1, 3-4, 6-12, 15:}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \cf1 \lang1033  Dipak Bhattacharya, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 The}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Paippal\u257 ?da-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 of}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Atharvaveda.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Critically}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 edited}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 from}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 palmleaf}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 manuscripts}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 in}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Oriya}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 script}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 discovered}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 by}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Durgamohan}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Bhattacharyya}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 and}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 one}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 \u346 ?\u257 ?rad\u257 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 manuscript.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Volume}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 One.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Consisting}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 of}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 first}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 fifteen}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 K\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?as}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 . Calcutta, 1997.\line }{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \cf1 \lang1033 K\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a 2:}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \cf1 \lang1033  Thomas Zehnder, }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Atharvaveda-Paippal\u257 ?da,}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Buch}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 2.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Text,}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 \u220 \'86bersetzung,}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Kommentar.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Eine}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Sammlung}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 altindischer}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Zauberspr\u252 \'9fche}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 vom}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Beginn}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 des}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 1.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Jahrtausends}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 v.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Chr}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 . Idstein, 1999.\line }{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \cf1 \lang1033 K\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a 5:}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \cf1 \lang1033  Alexander Lubotsky, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Atharvaveda-Paippal\u257 ?da.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 K\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Five.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Text,}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 translation,}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 commentary}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 , HOS, Opera Minora, vol. 4. Cambridge (Mass), 2002.\line }{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ul \cf1 \lang1033 K\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a 13-14:}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \cf1 \lang1033  Carlos Alfredo Lopez, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 The}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Paippal\u257 ?da}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 of}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Atharvaveda.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 A}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Critical}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Edition,}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Translation,}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 and}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Study}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 of}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Books}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 13}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 and}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 14}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 , Ph.D. Thesis (Harvard University). Cambridge (Mass.), 2000.}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 In Bloomfield's edition: AVP.}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  The Kashmirian Atharva-Veda (School of the P\u257 ?ippal\u257 ?das), reproduced by chromophotography from the manuscript in the University Library at T\u252 \'9fbingen, by Maurice Bloomfield and Richard Garbe. Baltimore, 1901. Only occasional reference is made to this important Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?. It was not feasible to utilize for the Concordance the material of this text, since the manuscript is unique, and bristles with errors on every folio. The first book of AVP. has recently been edited by Dr. L. C. Barret in the Journal of the American Oriental Society, vol. xxvi.}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 SV.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  S\u257 ?maved\u257 ?rcikam. Die Hymnen des S\u257 ?ma-Veda. Herausgegeben von Theodor Benfey. Leipzig, 1848. In accordance with the usual custom, the stanzas of each of the two main divisions of the work are numbered continuously.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ArS.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?ya-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? (or \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?) of the S\u257 ?ma-Veda, with the commentary of S\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?a \u256 ?c\u257 ?rya, and a Bengali translation by Satya Brata Samasrami. Edited by J\u299 ?v\u257 ?nanda Vidy\u257 ?s\u257 ?gara. Calcutta, 1873.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Mah\u257 ?n\u257 ?mnya\u7717 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  A litany belonging to the S\u257 ?ma-Veda and frequently quoted in the ritual. See S\u257 ?ma-Veda-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? as edited by Satyavrata S\u257 ?m\u257 ?\u347 ?rami in the Bibliotheca Indica, vol. ii., pages 366 ff. Calcutta, 1874 and following.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 VS.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  TheV\u257 ?jasaneyi-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? in the M\u257 ?dhya\u7747 ?dina-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?. Edited by Dr. Albrecht Weber. Berlin and London, 1852.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 VSK.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The V\u257 ?jasaneyi-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? in the K\u257 ?\u7751 ?va-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?. The variants of this recension of the White Yajur-Veda are given by Weber at the end of each section in the edition described in the preceding article. These variants have been embodied in the Concordance. In cases where there is no separate report for VSK., it is to be understood that the K\u257 ?\u7751 ?va-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ? agrees with the M\u257 ?dhya\u7747 ?dina-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 TS.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Die T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?. Herausgegeben von Albrecht Weber. Indische Studien, volumes xi. and xii. Leipzig, 1871-1872.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 MS.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  M\u257 ?itr\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?\u299 ?-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?. Herausgegeben von Dr. Leopold von Schroeder. Four volumes. Leipzig, 1881-1886.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 KS.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  K\u257 ?\u7789 ?hakam. Die Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? der Ka\u7789 ?ha-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?. Herausgegeben von Leopold von Schroeder. First volume. Leipzig, 1900. The remainder of this text is still unpublished.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 As stated above ("}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ul \lang1033 Unpublished texts included}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \lang1033 ", p. 5), I made a special journey to Vienna in the year 1902, for the purpose of excerpting from Dr. von Schroeder's manuscript copies the entire remaining material of this Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?. Through the kindness of that scholar I was enabled to accomplish my purpose; but a certain amount of indulgence is asked for my statements relating to the K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka, taken as they are from unedited material. The comparison of my excerpts with parallel passages from other texts is also likely to be somewhat less complete and exact than usual.\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 KSA.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, A\u347 ?vamedha-Grantha. The K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? professes to consist of five books. The first, already edited, is designated as }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 i\u7789 ?himik\u257 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ; the second, as }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 madhyamik\u257 ?}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ; the third, as }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 orimik\u257 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . Under the circumstances detailed in the note immediately following, it has seemed best to devise an independent designation (KSA.) for this part of the work, the A\u347 ?vamedha-Grantha.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 At the end of book iii., the colophon reads as follows: }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ity}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ekottara\u347 ?ata\u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?dhvaryuprabhedabhinne}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?r\u299 ?madyajurvede}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 k\u257 ?\u7789 ?hake}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 caraka\u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?y\u257 ?m}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 orimik\u257 ?y\u257 ?\u7747 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 hira\u7751 ?yagarbha\u7747 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 n\u257 ?ma}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 catv\u257 ?ri\u7745 ?\u347 ?a\u7747 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 sth\u257 ?naka\u7747 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 sa\u7747 ?p\u363 ?r\u7751 ?am}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  || }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 bhadram}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 astu}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 sa\u7747 ?p\u363 ?r\u7751 ?\u257 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ceyam}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 orimik\u257 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  || }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?r\u299 ?granthatraye}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 madhyapa\u7789 ?hit\u257 ?\u347 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ca}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 y\u257 ?jy\u257 ?nuv\u257 ?ky\u257 ?\u7717 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 sa\u7747 ?p\u363 ?r\u7751 ?\u257 ?\u7717 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  || }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 asmin}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 granthatray\u257 ?bhyantare}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 y\u257 ?jy\u257 ?nuv\u257 ?ky\u257 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 n\u257 ?ma}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 caturtho}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 grantha\u7717 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . That is to say, the redactors of this Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ? seem to regard the }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 y\u257 ?jy\u257 ?nuv\u257 ?ky\u257 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 -stanzas contained in the first three books as the fourth book of the Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, perhaps to match the }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 y\u257 ?jy\u257 ?nuv\u257 ?ky\u257 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  collection at the end of the fourth book of the M\u257 ?itr\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?\u299 ?. At all events, there is no such book in the known manuscripts of the K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka. After the }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 orimik\u257 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  follows directly the last book of the K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka, devoted to the }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 a\u347 ?vamedha}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 . Now this the redactors boldly advertise as the fifth book of the K\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka. At the beginning stands the legend, }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ath\u257 ?\u347 ?vamedho}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 n\u257 ?ma}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 pa\u241 \'96camo}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 grantha\u7717 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 ; at the end, }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ity}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 ekottara\u347 ?at\u257 ?dhvaryu\u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?prabhedabhinne}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 \u347 ?r\u299 ?madyajurvedak\u257 ?\u7789 ?hake}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 caraka\u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?y\u257 ?m}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 a\u347 ?vamedho}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 n\u257 ?ma}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 pa\u241 \'96camo}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 grantha\u7717 ?}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033  }{\f1 \AppleTypeServices \i \lang1033 sa\u7747 ?p\u363 ?r\u7751 ?a\u7717 ?}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \lang1033 .\par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 2. Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 AB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Das \u256 ?itareya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. Herausgegeben von Theodor Aufrecht. Bonn, 1879.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 KB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Das K\u257 ?u\u7779 ?\u299 ?taki-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a (\u346 ?\u257 ?\u7749 ?kh\u257 ?yana-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a). Herausgegeben von B. Lindner. Jena, 1887.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 GB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Gopatha-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a of the Atharva-Veda. Edited by R\u257 ?jendral\u257 ?la Mitra and Haracandra Vidy\u257 ?bh\u363 ?\u7779 ?a\u7751 ?a in the Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1872.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 PB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Pa\u241 \'96cavi\u7745 ?\u347 ?a-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a, or T\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?ya-Mah\u257 ?-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. The edition is that of the Bibliotheca Indica, Calcutta, 1870-1874, issued under the title, T\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?ya-Mah\u257 ?br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a, edited by \u256 ?nandacandra Ved\u257 ?ntav\u257 ?g\u299 ?\u347 ?a.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u7778 ?B.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u7778 ?a\u7693 ?vi\u7745 ?\u347 ?a-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. The first prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka is cited from the edition by Kurt Klemm, Das \u7778 ?a\u7693 ?vi\u7745 ?\u347 ?a-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a mit Proben aus S\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?a's Kommentar. Doctor's dissertation of the University of Leipsic. G\u252 \'9ftersloh, 1894. The remaining four prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?hakas are cited from the publication of Pandit J\u299 ?v\u257 ?nanda Vidy\u257 ?s\u257 ?gara, entitled, D\u257 ?ivata-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a and \u7778 ?a\u7693 ?vi\u7745 ?\u347 ?a-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a of the S\u257 ?ma-Veda. Calcutta, 1881.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 AdB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Adbhuta-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. This is the specific name of the fifth prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka of the \u7778 ?a\u7693 ?vi\u7745 ?\u347 ?a-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. Edited and translated by A. Weber in Zwei Vedische Texte \u252 \'9fber Omina und Portenta. Transactions of the Royal Academy of Berlin for 1858. Berlin, 1859.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 JB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  Raghu Vira and Lokesh Chandra, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Jaimin\u299 ?ya}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 of}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 S\u257 ?maveda}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 . Nagpur, 1954 (reprint: Delhi 1986).}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 In Bloomfield's edition: JB.}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  The J\u257 ?imin\u299 ?ya- or Talavak\u257 ?ra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. The mantras of this Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a, in an exceedingly corrupt state, were made available for the Concordance through the kindness of Professor Hanns Oertel, who is now engaged in making an edition of this text.}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Sa\u7747 ?hitopani\u7779 ?adB.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Sa\u7747 ?hitopani\u7779 ?ad-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a of the S\u257 ?ma-Veda. Edited by A. C. Burnell. Mangalore, 1877.\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?B.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?atapatha-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a in the M\u257 ?dhya\u7747 ?dina-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?. Edited by Dr. Albrecht Weber. Berlin and London, 1855.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?BK.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?atapatha-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a in the K\u257 ?\u7751 ?va-\u346 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ?. Occasional readings of this recension were gathered from Professor Julius Eggeling's translation of this work in the Sacred Books of the East, volumes xii., xxvi., xli., xliii., and xliv. Oxford, 1882 and following.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 TB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a of the Black Yajur-Veda. Edited by R\u257 ?jendral\u257 ?la Mitra. Bibliotheca Indica. Three volumes. Calcutta, 1859 and following.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 Four other texts of the S\u257 ?ma-Veda bear the name Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a, but with a propriety which is more than doubtful. They are listed below under the classes to which they more properly belong, and are as follows: the J\u257 ?imin\u299 ?ya- or Talavak\u257 ?ra-Upani\u7779 ?ad-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a; the S\u257 ?ma-Mantra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a; the S\u257 ?ma-Vidh\u257 ?na-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a; and the D\u257 ?ivata-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 3. \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yakas\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 AA.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u256 ?itareya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka. Edited by R\u257 ?jendral\u257 ?la Mitra. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1876.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 KA.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  Michael Witzel, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Das}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Ka\u7789 ?ha}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 \u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Textkritische}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Edition}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 mit}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 \u220 \'86bersetzung}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 und}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Kommentar}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 . Erlangen-Kathmandu, 1974.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 TA.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka. Edited by R\u257 ?jendral\u257 ?la Mitra. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1872.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 TAA.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The tenth book of the T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka, in the \u256 ?ndhra version. The variants of this version are printed on pages 913 ff of the edition mentioned in the preceding item. See Indische Studien, i. 76.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 4. Upani\u7779 ?ads\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 AU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?itareya-Upani\u7779 ?ad. The three adhy\u257 ?yas of the \u256 ?itareya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka, numbered ii. 4 and ii. 5 and ii. 6, figure as the \u256 ?itareya-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the collection entitled, T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya, \u256 ?itareya, and the \u346 ?vet\u257 ?\u347 ?vatara Upani\u7779 ?ads. Edited by Dr. E. R\u246 \'9aer. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1850.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 KBU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  K\u257 ?u\u7779 ?\u299 ?taki-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Edited by E. B. Cowell. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1861.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ChU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Ch\u257 ?ndogya-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Kritisch herausgegeben und \u252 \'9fbersetzt von Otto B\u246 \'9ahtlingk. Leipzig, 1889.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 JUB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The J\u257 ?imin\u299 ?ya- or Talavak\u257 ?ra-Upani\u7779 ?ad-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. Edited and translated by Hanns Oertel. Journal of the American Oriental Society, vol. xvi., pages 79-260. New Haven, 1894. See, above, the note to T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a (TB.).\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 B\u7771 ?hU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  B\u7771 ?had-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka-Upani\u7779 ?ad in der M\u257 ?dhya\u7747 ?dina Recension. Herausgegeben und \u252 \'9fbersetzt von O. B\u246 \'9ahtlingk. St. Petersburg (and Leipzig), 1889.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 B\u7771 ?hUK.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The same text in the recension or \u347 ?\u257 ?kh\u257 ? of the K\u257 ?\u7751 ?vas. Represented by occasional variants gathered from the B\u7771 ?had-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka-Upani\u7779 ?ad as edited by Dr. E. R\u246 \'9aer in the Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1849 and following.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?U.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad, identical with book xl. of the V\u257 ?jasaneyi-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?. Cited from the collection entitled, \u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?, Kena, Ka\u7789 ?ha, Pra\u347 ?na, Mu\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a, M\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u7693 ?\u363 ?kya Upani\u7779 ?ads, edited by Dr. E. R\u246 \'9aer. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1850.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 TU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Upani\u7779 ?ad. The three books 7 and 8 and 9 of the T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka, designated respectively as \u346 ?ik\u7779 ?\u257 ?-vall\u299 ? and \u256 ?nanda-vall\u299 ? and Bh\u7771 ?gu-vall\u299 ?, are known as the T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the edition of the T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka (TA.) listed above.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Mah\u257 ?nU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Mah\u257 ?n\u257 ?r\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?a-Upani\u7779 ?ad of the Atharva-Veda. Edited by Colonel George A. Jacob. Bombay Sanskrit Series, number xxxv. Bombay, 1888. The text is nearly identical with that of the tenth book of the T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-\u256 ?ra\u7751 ?yaka.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 KU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Ka\u7789 ?ha-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the same edition as the \u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad (\u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?U.), above.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?vetU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u346 ?vet\u257 ?\u347 ?vatara-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the same edition as the \u256 ?itareya-Upani\u7779 ?ad (AU.), above.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 MU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The M\u257 ?itr\u299 ? or M\u257 ?itr\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?\u299 ?ya-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Edited by E. B. Cowell. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta (and London), 1870.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Mu\u7751 ?\u7693 ?U.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Mu\u7751 ?\u7693 ?aka or Mu\u7751 ?\u7693 ?a-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the same edition as the \u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad (\u298 ?\u347 ?\u257 ?U.), above.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Pra\u347 ?U.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Pra\u347 ?na-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the same edition as the preceding.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 N\u7771 ?pU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The N\u7771 ?si\u7745 ?ha-P\u363 ?rva-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the N\u7771 ?si\u7745 ?ha-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ? of the Atharva-Veda as edited by Ramamaya Tarkaratna. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1871.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 N\u7771 ?uU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The N\u7771 ?si\u7745 ?ha-Uttara-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the text mentioned in the preceding item.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Gop\u257 ?lU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Gop\u257 ?la-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the Gop\u257 ?la-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ? of the Atharva-Veda as edited by Haracandra Vidy\u257 ?bh\u363 ?\u7779 ?a\u7751 ?a and Vi\u347 ?van\u257 ?tha \u346 ?\u257 ?str\u299 ?. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1870.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 Of the publication entitled }
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Eleven}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  }{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u256 ?tharva\u7751 ?a}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  }
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Upani\u7779 ?ads}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  with D\u299 ?pik\u257 ?s, edited by Colonel George A. Jacob, Bombay, 1891, the following eight Upani\u7779 ?ads have yielded more or less material for the Concordance:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 K\u257 ?l\u257 ?gU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  K\u257 ?l\u257 ?gnirudra-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 17 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 V\u257 ?suU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  V\u257 ?sudeva-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 25 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u256 ?tmapraU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?tmaprabodha- or \u256 ?tmabodha-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 77 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 G\u257 ?ru\u7693 ?aU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  G\u257 ?ru\u7693 ?a-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 83 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Mah\u257 ?U.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Mah\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 91 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 VaradapU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Varada-P\u363 ?rva-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 111 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 VaradauU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Varada-Uttara-T\u257 ?pan\u299 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 137 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 SkandaU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Skanda-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 161 ff.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 The collection entitled }
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u256 ?tharva\u7751 ?opani\u7779 ?ada\u7717 ?}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 , edited by Pandit J\u299 ?v\u257 ?nanda Vidy\u257 ?s\u257 ?gara (second edition, Calcutta, 1891), contains twenty-nine Atharvan Upani\u7779 ?ads. Of those among them not previously accounted for, the following fourteen have yielded more or less material for the Concordance:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?irasU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u346 ?iras-Upani\u7779 ?ad or Atharva\u347 ?iras-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 1 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 N\u257 ?dabinduU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  N\u257 ?dabindu-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 41 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 TejU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Tejobindu-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 84 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 YogatattvaU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Yogatattva-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 93 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Sa\u7747 ?ny\u257 ?saU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Sa\u7747 ?ny\u257 ?sa-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 99 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u256 ?ru\u7751 ?U.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?ru\u7751 ?eya-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 133 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 K\u7779 ?urU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  K\u7779 ?urik\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 151 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 C\u363 ?lik\u257 ?U.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  C\u363 ?lik\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 164 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 BrahmaU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Brahma-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 180 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Pr\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u257 ?gU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Pr\u257 ?\u7751 ?\u257 ?gnihotra-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 197 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 N\u299 ?larU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  N\u299 ?larudra-Upani\u7779 ?ad (a version of the \u346 ?atarudriya, Anquetil du Perron's Schat Roudri, VS.16; TS.4.5), pages 206 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Ka\u7751 ?\u7789 ?ha\u347 ?rutiU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Ka\u7751 ?\u7789 ?ha\u347 ?ruti-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 213 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 J\u257 ?bU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  J\u257 ?b\u257 ?la-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 337 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 K\u257 ?ivU.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  K\u257 ?ivalya-Upani\u7779 ?ad, pages 353 ff.\par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 Many more Upani\u7779 ?ads, or treatises like Upani\u7779 ?ads, are to be found, as is well known, in various other collections. They did not, however, yield materials of such a nature as to require to be embodied in the Concordance. A couple of Anquetil du Perron's Oupnekhat, the Pranou and the Shavank, are cited in the Concordance, but only rarely, the Pranou indeed only once. A few quotations are derived from Muktik\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad.\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 MuktiU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Muktik\u257 ?-Upani\u7779 ?ad. Cited from the collection in the \u256 ?nanda-\u256 ?\u347 ?rama Series.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Pra\u7751 ?avaU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Pra\u7751 ?ava-Upani\u7779 ?ad or Pranou Oupnekhat, identical with GB.1.1.16\endash 30. See Bloomfield, The Atharva-Veda and the Gopatha-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a (Indo-Aryan Encyclopaedia), pages 19, 108.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?\u257 ?unakaU.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u346 ?\u257 ?unaka-Upani\u7779 ?ad or Shavank Oupnekhat. Cf. Bloomfield under the preceding item.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 5. \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tras\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 A\u346 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra of \u256 ?\u347 ?val\u257 ?yana. Edited by R\u257 ?man\u257 ?r\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?a Vidy\u257 ?ratna. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1874. The two halves of the text are counted continuously.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?\u346 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?\u257 ?\u7749 ?kh\u257 ?yana-\u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra. Edited by Alfred Hillebrandt. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1888.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 V\u257 ?it.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  V\u257 ?it\u257 ?na-S\u363 ?tra. The Ritual of the Atharva-Veda. Edited by Dr. Richard Garbe, London, 1878.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 L\u346 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra of L\u257 ?\u7789 ?y\u257 ?yana. Edited by \u256 ?nandacandra Ved\u257 ?ntav\u257 ?g\u299 ?\u347 ?a. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1872.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 K\u346 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra of K\u257 ?ty\u257 ?yana. Edited by Dr. Albrecht Weber. Berlin and London, 1859.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Ap\u346 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra of \u256 ?pastamba. Edited by Dr. Richard Garbe. Bibliotheca Indica. Three volumes. Calcutta, 1882, 1885, 1892.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ApYaj\u241 \'96aparibh\u257 ?\u7779 ?\u257 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?pastamba-Yaj\u241 \'96a-Paribh\u257 ?\u7779 ?\u257 ?-S\u363 ?tras, being the first four ka\u7751 ?\u7693 ?ik\u257 ?s of book xxiv. of the \u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra of \u256 ?pastamba. Cited from the Hindu serial Ush\u257 ?, vol. i. Calcutta, 1890.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 M\u346 ?. }{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033 Jeannette M. van Gelder, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 The}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 M\u257 ?nava}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 \u346 ?rautas\u363 ?tra}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 belonging}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 to}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Maitr\u257 ?ya\u7751 ?\u299 ?}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  New Delhi, 1961 (reprint: Delhi 1985, }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 with}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 new}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Appendix}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Containing}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Corrections}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 and}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Emendations}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 to}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 text}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 by}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 C.G.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Kashikar}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 ).}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f2 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 In Bloomfield's edition: M\u346 ?.}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  Das M\u257 ?nava-\u346 ?r\u257 ?uta-S\u363 ?tra. Herausgegeben von Dr. Friedrich Knauer. Books i.-v. (out of eleven). St. Petersburg, 1900-1903.\par
As was mentioned above ("}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ul \cf1 \lang1033 Unpublished texts included}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \cf1 \lang1033 ", p. 5 and "}{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ul \cf1 \lang1033 To Pupils and Colleagues}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \ulnone \cf1 \lang1033 ", p. 8), the mantras of the remaining six books were made available to me by the kindness of Professor Knauer. The well-known carefulness of his habits of work will offset in a measure the inevitably less finished quality of material as yet unpublished; but I could not of course compare the unpublished M\u346 ?. mantras with my other material as thoroughly as would have been possible if I had had the M\u346 ?. text complete in printed form. The citations from the M\u346 ?. require sometimes two numbers (so in book viii.), sometimes three (so in book vi.), sometimes four (so in books i. and ii.). Accordingly, I have separated the individual citations one from another by an interposed dash (\endash ), in cases where there was any danger of confusion.}
{\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}}{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 6. G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tras, Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?has, and related texts\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 AG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?\u347 ?val\u257 ?yana-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra. Issued under the title G\u7771 ?hyas\u363 ?tr\u257 ?\u7751 ?i. Indische Hausregeln. Herausgegeben von Adolf Friedrich Stenzler. I. \u256 ?\u347 ?val\u257 ?yana. Leipzig, 1864.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?G.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u346 ?\u257 ?\u7749 ?kh\u257 ?yana-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra. Edited and translated by H. Oldenberg, under the title Das \u346 ?\u257 ?\u7749 ?kh\u257 ?yanag\u7771 ?hyam, in the Indische Studien, vol. xv., pages 1-166. Leipzig, 1878.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \cf1 \lang1033 \par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 K\u257 ?u\u347 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The K\u257 ?u\u347 ?ika-S\u363 ?tra of the Atharva-Veda, with extracts from the commentaries of D\u257 ?rila and Ke\u347 ?ava. Edited by Maurice Bloomfield, in vol. xiv. of the Journal of the American Oriental Society. New Haven, 1890.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 SMB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  S\u257 ?ma-Mantra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. The first prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka is cited from the Doctor's dissertation of the University of Halle, entitled Das Mantrabr\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. I. Prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka. Von Heinrich St\u246 \'9anner. Halle, 1901. The second is cited from an edition contained in the Hindu serial called Ush\u257 ?, vol. i. Calcutta, 1890. See the note to T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a (TB.).\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 GG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Das Gobhila-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra. Herausgegeben von Dr. Friedrich Knauer. Dorpat (and Leipzig), 1884.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 JG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  Wilhelm Caland, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 The}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Jaiminig\u7771 ?hyas\u363 ?tra}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 belonging}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 to}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 S\u257 ?maveda.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 With}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Extracts}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 from}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 the}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Commentary.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Edited}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 with}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 an}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Introduction}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 and}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Translated}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 into}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 English}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 by}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 W.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Caland}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 , Punjab Sanskrit Series No. 2. Lahore, 1922 (reprints: Delhi 1984, 1991).}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 KhG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Kh\u257 ?dira-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra. Edited and translated by Hermann Oldenberg in the Sacred Books of the East, vol. xxix., pages 369-435. Oxford, 1886.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 PG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  P\u257 ?raskara-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra. Issued under the title G\u7771 ?hyas\u363 ?tr\u257 ?\u7751 ?i. Indische Hausregeln. Herausgegeben von Adolf Friedrich Stenzler. II. P\u257 ?raskara. Leipzig, 1878.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ApMB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?ha or the Prayer Book of the \u256 ?pastambins. Edited by M. Winternitz. Oxford, 1897.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult0 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 The abbreviation ApMB. (meaning \u256 ?pastamba-Mantra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a) was chosen by me for this Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?ha in order to match SMB. (meaning S\u257 ?ma-Mantra-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a). The use of the name Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a for a considerable variety of subsidiary texts which are by no means strictly Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?as (see the note to T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a, TB.) is a peculiarity of the S\u257 ?ma-Veda tradition; but this Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?ha is never to my knowledge spoken of as a Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a in the tradition of the \u256 ?pastambins. My choice is therefore open to well-founded criticism.\par
Whenever it seemed desirable, I have placed, in parenthesis, by the side of the citation of a given mantra of the Mantra-P\u257 ?\u7789 ?ha, a reference to that passage of the \u256 ?pastamba-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra which contains the prescriptions for the practical application of the said mantra. Thus: pra su gmant\u257 ? dhiyas\u257 ?nasya sak\u7779 ?a\u7751 ?i ApMB.1.1.1a (ApG.2.4.2).\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ApG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The \u256 ?pastamb\u299 ?ya-G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra. Edited by Dr. M. Winternitz. Vienna, 1887.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 HG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The G\u7771 ?hya-S\u363 ?tra of Hira\u7751 ?yake\u347 ?in. Edited by Dr. J. Kirste. Vienna, 1889.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \cf1 \lang1033 V\u257 ?rG.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \cf1 \lang1033  Pierre Rolland, }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Un}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 rituel}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 domestique}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 v\u233 \'8edique.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Le}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }
{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 V\u257 ?r\u257 ?hag\u7771 ?hyas\u363 ?tra.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Traduit}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 et}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 annot\u233 \'8e}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 par}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Pierre}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033  }{\f1 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i \cf1 \lang1033 Rolland}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \i0 \cf1 \lang1033 . Aix-en-Provence, 1971.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 \par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 G\u7771 ?hyas.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Das G\u7771 ?hyasa\u7747 ?graha-Pari\u347 ?i\u7779 ?\u7789 ?a des Gobhilaputra. Edited and translated by M. Bloomfield in the Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenl\u228 \'8andischen Gesellschaft, vol. xxxv., pages 533-587.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Karmap.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Karmaprad\u299 ?pa. The first prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka is cited from the edition entitled Der Karmaprad\u299 ?pa. I. Prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka. Herausgegeben von Dr. Friedrich Schrader. Halle, 1889. The second prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka is cited from the edition entitled Der Karmaprad\u299 ?pa. II. Prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka. Herausgegeben von Dr. A. Freiherrn von Sta\u235 \'91l-Holstein. Leipzig, 1900. The third prap\u257 ?\u7789 ?haka is cited from an edition of the entire text, issued under the title K\u257 ?ty\u257 ?yana-Sm\u7771 ?ti, and forming a part (vol. i., pages 603 ff) of the compilation called Dharma\u347 ?\u257 ?strasa\u7747 ?graha, and published by J\u299 ?v\u257 ?nanda Vidy\u257 ?s\u257 ?gara, Calcutta, 1876.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 7. Dharma-S\u363 ?tras, Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stras, and Sm\u7771 ?tis\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 GDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  G\u257 ?utama-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra. Issued under the title The Institutes of G\u257 ?utama. Edited by Adolf Friedrich Stenzler. London, 1876.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ApDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?pastamb\u299 ?ya-Dharma-S\u363 ?tra. Aphorisms on the Sacred Law of the Hindus by \u256 ?pastamba. Edited by Dr. George B\u252 \'9fhler, C.I.E. Second Edition. Bombay, 1892. Bombay Sanskrit Series, No. xliv.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 BDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The B\u257 ?udh\u257 ?yana-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra. Edited by E. Hultzsch, Ph.D. Leipzig, 1884.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ViDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Vi\u7779 ?\u7751 ?u-Sm\u7771 ?ti. The Institutes of Vi\u7779 ?\u7751 ?u. Edited by Julius Jolly, Ph.D. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1881.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 V\u257 ?Dh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  V\u257 ?si\u7779 ?\u7789 ?ha-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra. Aphorisms on the Sacred Law of the \u256 ?ryas, as taught in the school of Vasi\u7779 ?\u7789 ?ha. Edited by Rev. Alois Anton F\u252 \'9fhrer, Ph.D. Bombay, 1883. Bombay Sanskrit Series, No. xxiii.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 MDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  M\u257 ?nava-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra. Critically edited by J. Jolly. London, 1887. Tr\u252 \'9fbner's Oriental Series.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 YDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Y\u257 ?j\u241 \'96avalkya-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra. Y\u257 ?j\u241 \'96avalkya's Gesetzbuch. Herausgegeben von Dr. Adolf Friedrich Stenzler. Berlin and London, 1849.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 N\u257 ?radaDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  N\u257 ?rad\u299 ?ya-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra. Issued as The Institutes of N\u257 ?rada. Edited by Julius Jolly. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1885.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 ParDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Par\u257 ?\u347 ?ara-Sm\u7771 ?ti. Edited by Candrak\u257 ?nta Tark\u257 ?la\u7747 ?k\u257 ?ra. Bibliotheca Indica. Calcutta, 1890 and following.\par
}}
{\pard \s339 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 \tx2520 {\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \lang1033 The compilation entitled }
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Dharma\u347 ?\u257 ?strasa\u7747 ?graha}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  was published in two volumes by Pandit J\u299 ?v\u257 ?nanda Vidy\u257 ?s\u257 ?gara in Calcutta, 1876. Since the editor has neglected to number the \u347 ?lokas, I have had in most cases to count them for myself, and all other users of the work in connection with the Concordance will have to do the like. The twenty-six texts of this compilation were read for the Concordance, and more or less material suitable therefor was yielded by the following eleven:\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 LAtDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Laghu-Atri-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. i., pages 1 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 VAtDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  V\u7771 ?ddha-Atri-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. i., pages 47 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 LHDh.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Laghu-H\u257 ?r\u299 ?ta-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. i., pages 177 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 VHDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  V\u7771 ?ddha-H\u257 ?r\u299 ?ta-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. i., pages 194 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u256 ?u\u347 ?Dh}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033 . \u256 ?u\u347 ?anasa-Dharma-\u346 ?\u257 ?stra, vol. i., pages 501 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u256 ?\u7749 ?gDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u256 ?\u7749 ?girasa-Sm\u7771 ?ti, vol. i., pages 554 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Sa\u7747 ?vartaDh.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Sa\u7747 ?varta-Sm\u7771 ?ti, vol. i., pages 584 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 B\u7771 ?hPDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  B\u7771 ?hat-Par\u257 ?\u347 ?ara-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. ii., pages 53 ff;\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 LVy\u257 ?saDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Laghu-Vy\u257 ?sa-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. ii., pages 310 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Vy\u257 ?saDh.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Vy\u257 ?sa-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. ii., pages 321 ff;\par
}{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \u346 ?a\u7749 ?khaDh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  \u346 ?a\u7749 ?kha-Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?, vol. ii., pages 343 ff.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 8. Vidh\u257 ?na-texts\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Rvidh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Rig-Vidh\u257 ?na. Issued as a Berlin Docto\nisusselectcaret r's dissertation under the title \u7770 ?gvidh\u257 ?nam. Auctor Rudolf Meyer. Berlin, 1877.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Svidh.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The S\u257 ?ma-Vidh\u257 ?na-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a of the S\u257 ?ma-Veda. By A. C. Burnell. London, 1873. See note to T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a (TB.).\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 9. Ancillary texts of the Veda\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 N.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Nirukta. Cited from the German edition, Y\u257 ?ska's Nirukta sammt den Nigha\u7751 ?\u7789 ?avas. Herausgegeben von Rudolf Roth. G\u246 \'9attingen, 1852.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 B\u7771 ?hD.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The B\u7771 ?had-Devat\u257 ?, attributed to \u346 ?\u257 ?unaka. Edited by Arthur A. Macdonell. Volumes v. and vi. of the Harvard Oriental Series. Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1904.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 DB.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  D\u257 ?ivata-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. Issued under the title D\u257 ?ivata-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a and \u7778 ?a\u7693 ?vi\u7745 ?\u347 ?a-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a. Edited by Pandit J\u299 ?v\u257 ?nanda Vidy\u257 ?s\u257 ?gara. Calcutta, 1881. See note to T\u257 ?ittir\u299 ?ya-Br\u257 ?hma\u7751 ?a (TB.).\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Nak\u7779 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  Nak\u7779 ?atra-Kalpa. One of the five so-called Kalpas of the Atharva-Veda. Cited from a manuscript in my possession.\par
}}
{\pard \qc \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li0 \lin0 \fi0 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 \par
Class 10. Four miscellaneous texts\par
}}
{\pard \s340 \qj \nowidctlpar \nisuskeep0 \nisuskeepn0 \sb240 \sa0 \sl240 \slmult1 \ltrpar \li480 \lin480 \fi-480 \ri0 \rin0 {\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Mah\u257 ?bh.}
{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Mah\u257 ?-Bh\u257 ?rata. Cited from the Bombay edition of 1863 (citations discussed by Adolf Holtzmann, Das Mah\u257 ?bh\u257 ?rata und seine Theile, vol. iv., pages 11 ff). A fairly considerable number of Vedic stanzas are quoted in the great Epic, and usually in a form at variance with the forms found in the Vedic Sa\u7747 ?hit\u257 ?s.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Bhagavadg\u299 ?t\u257 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Bhagavad-G\u299 ?t\u257 ?. A few passages, corresponding with passages in the Upani\u7779 ?ads treated in this Concordance, have been culled by me from Colonel George A. Jacob's Concordance to the principal Upani\u7779 ?ads and the Bhagavadg\u299 ?t\u257 ?, Bombay, 1891.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Supar\u7751 ?.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Supar\u7751 ?\u257 ?khy\u257 ?na. Issued as a Berlin Doctor's dissertation under the title Supar\u7751 ?\u257 ?dhy\u257 ?ya\u7717 ?. Auctor Elimar Grube. Berlin, 1875. The text is reprinted in Indische Studien, vol. xiv., pages 1 ff. It contains a few stanzas or p\u257 ?das which are identical with passages in the RV. or AV. or similar to them; and such p\u257 ?das have been incorporated in the Concordance.\par
}
{\f2 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b \lang1033 Mah\u257 ?bh\u257 ?\u7779 ?ya.}{\f0 \fs28 \AppleTypeServices \b0 \lang1033  The Mah\u257 ?-Bh\u257 ?\u7779 ?ya. A single k\u257 ?rik\u257 ?, to be found at vol. i., page 96, of Kielhorn's edition, is identical with a \u347 ?loka occurring at GB.1.1.26.\par }}}